Update Wasm module distribution doc to use WasmPlugin. (#10654)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/index.md

keywords: [extensibility,Wasm,WebAssembly]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: no
status: Alpha
---

Istio provides the ability to [extend proxy functionality using WebAssembly (Wasm)](/blog/2020/wasm-announce/).
One of the key advantages of Wasm extensibility is that extensions can be loaded dynamically at runtime.

> But first these extensions must be distributed to the proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These extensions must first be distributed to the Envoy proxy.
```

> Istio makes this possible by allowing the Istio agent to dynamically download Wasm modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio makes this possible by allowing the proxy agent to dynamically download Wasm modules.
```

## Configure an HTTP Filter with a Remote Wasm Module

> Here we will walk through an example of adding a basic auth extension to our mesh. We will configure Istio to pull a [basic auth module](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/tree/master/extensions/basic_auth) from a remote image registry and load it with configuration to run the module on calls to the `/productpage` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, you will add a HTTP Basic auth extension to your mesh. You will configure Istio to pull the [Basic auth module](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/tree/master/extensions/basic_auth) from a remote image registry and load it. It will be configured to run on calls to `/productpage`.
```

> To configure a WebAssembly filter with a remote Wasm module, a `WasmPlugin` resource will be created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a WebAssembly filter with a remote Wasm module, create a `WasmPlugin` resource:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: extensions.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: WasmPlugin
metadata:
  name: basic-auth
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  url: oci://ghcr.io/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/basic_auth:{{< istio_version >}}.0
  phase: AUTHN
  pluginConfig:
    basic_auth_rules:
      - prefix: "/productpage"
        request_methods:
          - "GET"
          - "POST"
        credentials:
          - "ok:test"
          - "YWRtaW4zOmFkbWluMw=="
{{< /text >}}

> With this configuration, an HTTP filter will be injected into ingress gateway proxies as an authentication filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An HTTP filter will be injected into ingress gateway proxies as an authentication filter.
```

> When the configuration reaches Istio proxy, the Istio agent will intercept the `WasmPlugin` configuration, download remote Wasm modules from the OCI image registry to a local file, and inject the HTTP filter by referencing that local Wasm module file.
> The `pluginConfig` field will be converted to the following JSON string, which will be loaded by the basic auth plugin at initialization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Istio agent will interpret the `WasmPlugin` configuration, download remote Wasm modules from the OCI image registry to a local file, and inject the HTTP filter into Envoy by referencing that file.
The `pluginConfig` field will be converted to the following JSON string, which will be loaded by the Basic auth plugin at initialization:
```

{{< text json >}}
{
  "basic_auth_rules": [
    {
      "prefix": "/productpage",
      "request_methods":[ "GET", "POST" ],
      "credentials":[ "ok:test", "YWRtaW4zOmFkbWluMw==" ]
    }
  ]
}
{{< /text >}}

> For more example usage of `WasmPlugin` API, please take a look at the [API reference](/docs/reference/config/proxy_extensions/wasm-plugin/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more example usage of the `WasmPlugin` API, please take a look at the [API reference](/docs/reference/config/proxy_extensions/wasm-plugin/).
```

There are several known limitations with this module distribution mechanism, which will be addressed in future releases:

- Only HTTP filters are supported.

> - Modules can only be fetched from public OCI image registry.

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I haven't checked yet, but I guess it is actually possible if we configure `~/.docker/config.json` is placed. That is because we use the default keychain by default: https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/pkg/wasm/imagefetcher.go#L60

> - Modules can only be fetched from public OCI image registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modules can only be fetched from a public OCI image registry.
```

which is maintained by the Istio community and used to develop Istio's Telemetry Wasm extension:

- [Write, test, deploy, and maintain a Wasm extension with C++](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md)

> - [Build Istio Wasm plugin compatible OCI images](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/how-to-build-oci-images.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Build Istio Wasm plugin-compatible OCI images](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/how-to-build-oci-images.md)
```
